<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<ui:composition>
		
		<div align="center">
		<table width="100%">
		<tr>
			<td align="center"><h1>Welcome to Opereffa!</h1></td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td align="left">
				<p class="opereffa">When you first open this demo page you are asked for a patient name. Unless you change this patient
				with the change patient link on the top left, you will be working in the context of this patient. The patient name will be displayed in 
				square brackets, just after the Change Patient link</p>
				
				<p class="opereffa">This three pane web page is the core of the User Interface in Opereffa. Even though it
				looks very simple, it is designed to provide a consistent user experience, with emphasis on grouping functionality
				around the way we use information. The left pane, where you can see categories like Observation, 
				Instruction and Evaluation  connect you to clical concepts, expressed by Archetypes. The links under these 
				categories display forms for data entry. These forms are created by Archetypes, and each click on a link on the left
				pane means a new form. So if you click on a link, and enter data, and then click on another link <b>without saving your form</b> 
				you would lose your data in the current form, since you asked for a clean, brand new form.</p>
				
				<p class="opereffa">If you display a form, enter data and click Save button, your data will be saved into database
				for the patient name you have provided, and right pane will be updated. The right pane displays the last 20 records of the patient.
				Immediately after a new form is saved, the form in the middle pane switches to edit mode for the last saved record.
				So after the initial save, you can change the saved record, just in case you have given a wrong value, or want to change something.</p>
				
				<p class="opereffa">If you click on Update link on the right pane, for a record, a form that will 
				let you edit that record will appear in the middle pane. You can update the record and click save, and you'll be updating the same
				record unless you start a new one by clicking on a link from the left. The last updated record will have a grey background on the right hand pane.
				</p>								
				
				<p class="opereffa">The right pane also contains two menus on the top, one for getting the last 20 records of the patient, and the 
				other for accessing the reports connected to data saved by forms. At the moment only data saved with a single form is used by archetypes, 
				and there are bugs related to handling of missing values. So you are advised to complete all fields in the test form (the one that says 
				connected to reporting) and save it. After a couple of saves, you can test the reports to see what they look like. If you don't have the time, simply
				change patient to "demouser" (without quotes), which has automatically generated records. (they are not very meaningful though) The report viewer 
				will appear in the middle pane, and you can export reports to pdf, word, excel etc..</p>
				
				<p class="opereffa">So the left pane is the concept browser, the middle pane is the data entry, update and display pane, and the right pane is the overview pane
				This layout is designed with a lot of enhancements in mind, like adding decision supoport related warnings to right hand pane, 
				providing advanced search functionality for left pane etc.. The fundamental idea is to distribute functionality based on the roles of the panes in general.</p>
								 				
			</td>
		</tr>		
		</table>
		</div>
		
				
	</ui:composition>
</html>